README.md, before:

# [What is Kedro](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/introduction/introduction.html) and [how to use it](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/spaceflights_tutorial.html)? 

Shortly, it is a framework for creating reproducible and modular data science experiments. Thus, we decided to use it while solving the [H&M Personalized Fashion Recommendations](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/h-and-m-personalized-fashion-recommendations) Kaggle competition. 

Here, we decided to share a solution with a part of the approach on how to use Kedro and featuretools to **create multiple, reproducible, customizable and scalable feature stores** which can be used in Machine Learning models further in the pipeline. Also, please refer to [Kedro documentation](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html) in case of any doubts. 

What we are trying to achieve is a modular pipeline with shared functions, where we would be able to customize each and every 'data cleaning', 'feature engineering', 'propensity modelling', 'recommendation engine', 'ensembling' node and use them in pipelines to achieve a reproducible result.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24912552/164473659-11deebbd-2bc5-4684-8f19-767d4ab4b9fa.png)


Below you can find an instruction wits steps leading to the resulting feature stores.

## Set up the environment

##### 1. Clone the repository

##### 2. Create conda environment

```
cd kedro
conda create --name kedro
conda activate kedro
conda install pip
pip install -r src/requirements.txt
```

##### To start a new Kedro project:
Kedro project that is ready to use in the repository was created with:
```
kedro new
    [New Kedro Project]: Kaggle H&M
    [kaggle-h&m]: kedro
    [kaggle_h&m]: main
```

## Run kedro pipelines

##### 1. generate sampled datasets from raw CSVs and save them as parquet files
To avoid extensive data loading, I purposly ommitted "sampling" part which uses raw data and started the pipeline from the second step which is "data cleaning". I encourage you to fill in the gap, write a sampling function (node) and run the pipeline to get the sampled datasets I included in the repo.
```
kedro run --pipeline sample -e sample
```
##### 2. clean the data for the purpose of feature engineering
```
kedro run --pipeline clean -e sample
```
See the results in the notebook [here](kedro/notebooks/data_check.ipynb)

##### 3. generate customers- and articles- feature stores
```
kedro run --pipeline create_fs -e sample
```
See the results in the notebook [here](kedro/notebooks/feature_store_check.ipynb)

##### 4. generate customers- feature store with more variables using extend_customers_fs environment
 ```
kedro run --pipeline create_fs -n customer -e extend_customers_fs
 ```
See the results in the notebook [here] (kedro/notebooks/feature_store_check.ipynb)

Commit message:

small changes to text + adding Python version

README.md, after:

# [What is Kedro](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/introduction/introduction.html) and [how to use it](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/spaceflights_tutorial.html)? 

In short, it is a framework for creating reproducible and modular data science experiments. Thus, we decided to use it while takling the [H&M Personalized Fashion Recommendations](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/h-and-m-personalized-fashion-recommendations) Kaggle competition. 

Here, we decided to share a toy exmaple of the approach we use taking advantage of Kedro and featuretools to **create multiple, reproducible, customizable and scalable feature stores** which can be used in Machine Learning models further in the pipeline. Also, please refer to [Kedro documentation](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html) in case of any doubts. 

What we are trying to achieve is a modular pipeline with shared functions, where we would be able to customize each and every 'data cleaning', 'feature engineering', 'propensity modelling', 'recommendation engine', 'ensembling' node and use them in pipelines to achieve a reproducible result.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24912552/164473659-11deebbd-2bc5-4684-8f19-767d4ab4b9fa.png)


Below you can find an instruction wits steps leading to the resulting feature stores.

## Set up the environment

##### 1. Clone the repository

##### 2. Create conda environment

```
cd kedro
conda create --name kedro python=3.8
conda activate kedro
conda install pip
pip install -r src/requirements.txt
```

##### To start a new Kedro project:
Kedro project that is ready to use in the repository was created with:
```
kedro new
    [New Kedro Project]: Kaggle H&M
    [kaggle-h&m]: kedro
    [kaggle_h&m]: main
```

## Run kedro pipelines

##### 1. generate sampled datasets from raw CSVs and save them as parquet files
To avoid extensive data loading, I purposly ommitted "sampling" part which uses raw data and started the pipeline from the second step which is "data cleaning". I encourage you to fill in the gap, write a sampling function (node) and run the pipeline to get the sampled datasets I included in the repo.
```
kedro run --pipeline sample -e sample
```
##### 2. clean the data for the purpose of feature engineering
```
kedro run --pipeline clean -e sample
```
See the results in the notebook [here](kedro/notebooks/data_check.ipynb)

##### 3. generate customers- and articles- feature stores
```
kedro run --pipeline create_fs -e sample
```
See the results in the notebook [here](kedro/notebooks/feature_store_check.ipynb)

##### 4. generate customers- feature store with more variables using extend_customers_fs environment
 ```
kedro run --pipeline create_fs -n customer -e extend_customers_fs
 ```
See the results in the notebook [here] (kedro/notebooks/feature_store_check.ipynb)
